Dev pydev guide (#149)
italia/Satosa-Saml2Spid: README-Python-Dev.md

# Developing a Python dependency of this project

This document contains a suggested approach on how to develop or modify a Python library that uses the current project Docker as a test or develop environment.
For example, those instructions can be used to create a developer environment for further development of [eudi-wallet-it-python](https://github.com/italia/eudi-wallet-it-python).
The instructions below are intended to be a suggestion or a guideline rather than a standard.

## Step 0: Identify which Python dependency requires development

> We will assume that the developer want to develop a modified version of the library [eudi-wallet-it-python](https://github.com/italia/eudi-wallet-it-python) which is a dependency of the container `satosa-saml2spid`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will assume that the developer needs to develop a modified version of the library [eudi-wallet-it-python](https://github.com/italia/eudi-wallet-it-python) which is a dependency of the container `satosa-saml2spid`.
```

Author: applied in af64492ef64e46ab1a5cdf11bbece22536b38317

A local copy of the library is required.

> We will assume that the project eudi-wallet-it-python has been cloned in the folder `/home/username/my/development/folder/eudi-wallet-it-python/pyeudiw`. The path prefix `/home/username/my/development/folder/` is an example and should be replaced here with the location of your own development package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We assume that the project eudi-wallet-it-python has been cloned in the folder `/home/username/my/development/folder/eudi-wallet-it-python/pyeudiw`. The path prefix `/home/username/my/development/folder/` is an example and should be replaced here with the location of your own development package.
```

Author: applid in af64492ef64e46ab1a5cdf11bbece22536b38317

## Step 2: Update the docker volume by binding the local development directory

In the file [docker-compose.yml](Docker-example/docker-compose.yml), among the volumes of the container `satosa-saml2spid`, add the entry
    
        volumes:
            - /home/username/my/development/folder/eudi-wallet-it-python/pyeudiw:/.venv/lib/python3.12/site-packages/pyeudiw:rw

This will replace the installed dependency package with your own local code.

**NOTE:** at the time of writing, container volume is binded to the location `/.venv/lib/python3.12/site-packages`, but your location might be different as it always reference the Python version that is awailable in the container, which in this case is `Python3.12`. Check che actual python version of your container before completing with this step.

## Step 3: Run the container

Launch the script [run-docker-compose.sh](Docker-compose/run-docker-compose.sh). This will launch the docker composition that includes the container `satosa-saml2spid`.

## Step 4 (Optional): Install further dependencies in the container

> If your version of the library containes further dependency, or if you want to install development only dependency such as, say [pdbpp](https://github.com/pdbpp/pdbpp), you can create a new image that contains the required dependency.

Author: Note that `docker container commit` command actually creates a new image (see the [docs](https://docs.docker.com/reference/cli/docker/container/commit/#:~:text=Description,a%20container%27s%20changes)) hence the proposed addition is technically redundant.

Since this might not be a well known detail of the command, I am happy to include the proposed addition.

Two different options are presented, based on your preferences or requirements.

### Option 4.1: Add the dependency to an existing container

The following steps instructs on how to install a new pip dependency to an existing container. We will assume that the container has name `satosa-saml2spid`.

1. Enter in the container environment with `docker exec -it satosa-saml2spid bash`. Note that to perform the `docker exec` command, the container MUST be running.
2. Execute the following commands to install you own dependencies; replace `new_package_name` with the new dependency

        source /.venv/bin/activate
        pip3 install new_package_name

3. Exit from the container area with Docker escape control sequence, that is, `Ctrl+P` followed by `Ctrl+Q`.
4. Freeze the changes with the command `docker container commit satosa-saml2spid`.
5. Stop and then restart the container.

> At the end of the procedure, you will have created a new updated image with the required dependency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the end of the procedure, you will find the required dependency as part of your container.
```
